README.md, before:


# icm-partner-devops

## Overview

Repository *icm-partner-devops* provides an *Azure DevOps Pipeline* template, which can be used by ICM projects, that are managed inside *Intershops Commerce Platform*. The template should be used as is. Any custom additions should be made outside of the template.

## How to use the pipeline template

To use the pipeline template, add a file named `azure-pipelines.yml` to the root directory of your project with the following content:

```
# azure-pipelines.yml

resources:
  repositories:
    - repository: icm-partner-devops
      type: github
      endpoint: <GitHub Connection>
      name: intershop/icm-partner-devops
      ref: refs/heads/stable/v1

jobs:
  - template: ci-job-template.yml@icm-partner-devops
    parameters:
      <PARAMETER>

```
A more detailed example can be found in the `azure-pipelines.yml.tmpl` file.
After that, in Azure DevOps a new pipeline has to be created from this file.

## Parameters

| Parameter Name | Description | Default Value | Required |
|---|---|---|---|
| id | Identifies each job uniquely when ci-job-template.yml is used in a loop. Can only contain characters, numbers, and underscores. Also used to extend names of files published in extensions. |  |  |
| dependsOn | Enables an easy integration with custom jobs. The parameter will be passed as is to the 'dependsOn' property of the job. |  |  |
| condition | Enables an easy integration with custom jobs. The parameter will be passed as is to the 'condition' property of the job. |  |  |
| agentPool | Specifies the name of the agent pool. The pool name can't be hardcoded in the pipeline template. |  | Yes |
| dockerRepoICMServiceConnection | Name of the Service connection to the Docker repository |  | Yes |
| dockerRepoICM | Name of Docker repository, containing the ICM-customization product images. |  | Yes |
| artifactsFeed | Name of projects Maven repository. |  | Yes |
| acrServiceConnection | Name of the service connection to the ACR of the project. |  | Yes |
| acr | Repository in ACR including host name. |  | Yes |
| projectPath | Specifies the name of the repository. | '$(Build.Repository.Name)' | Yes |
| envPath | Name of the ci-configuration repository resource. When making adjustments, the 'directoriesConf' parameter must also be adjusted. | 'ci-configuration' | Yes |
| directoriesConf | Setting required system properties of the JVM. When making adjustments, the 'envPath' parameter must also be adjusted. | '-DlicenseDir=$(Pipeline.Workspace)/s/ci-configuration/license -DconfigDir=$(Pipeline.Workspace)/s/ci-configuration/environment' | Yes |
| repositoriesConf | Setting required project properties. | '-PrepoUser=PAT -PrepoPassword=$(System.AccessToken)' | Yes |
| gradleUserHome | Value of the GRADLE_USER_HOME variable. | '$(Pipeline.Workspace)/.gradle' | Yes |
| containerPrefix | Prefix of the GebTest containers. | '$(Build.Repository.Name)' | Yes |
| jobTimeoutInMinutes | Maximum job execution time. | 300 | Yes |
| jobContinueOnError | Specifies whether future jobs should run even if this job fails; defaults to 'false'. | false | Yes |
| runGebTest | Specifies whether all gebTest tasks should run; defaults to 'true'. | true | Yes |
| gebTestTasks | gradle gebTest tasks. | 'startSolrCloud startMailSrv startAS startWA startWAA rebuildSearchIndex gebTest' | Yes |
| gradleBuildTask | gradle build tasks. | 'startMSSQL dbPrepare test ishUnitTestReport -x=containerClean' | Yes |
| lockImages | Specify whether an image built based on a Git tag should be locked in the Azure container registry. | true |  |
| preHookTemplate | Inject additional steps into the current job. This can be done by defining additional templates, which are executed before the main steps of the current job. Just create according template files and pass their names to the following parameters. '@self' is important, otherwise the templates would be expected at the same location as ci-job-template.yml. <filename>@self | |  |
| postHookTemplate | Inject additional steps into the current job. This can be done by defining additional templates, which are executed after the main steps of the current job. Just create according template files and pass their names to the following parameters. '@self' is important, otherwise the templates would be expected at the same location as ci-job-template.yml. <filename>@self | |  |
| sonarQubeEnabled | Specifies whether SonarQube analysis should be enabled. | false |  |
| sqGradlePluginVersionChoice | Specifies the SonarQube Gradle plugin version to use. Declare the version in the Gradle configuration file, or specify a version with this string. Allowed values: specify (Specify version number), build (Use plugin applied in your build.gradle). | specify |
| sonarQubePluginVersion | Specifies the version of the SonarQube plugin to be used for code analysis. | 2.6.1 |  |
| checkStyleEnabled | Specifies whether CheckStyle analysis should be enabled. | false |  |
| pmdEnabled | Specifies whether PMD analysis should be enabled. | false |  |
| spotBugsEnabled | Specifies whether SpotBugs analysis should be enabled. | false |  |
| spotBugsPluginVersion | Specifies the version of the SpotBugs plugin to be used for code analysis. | 4.7.0 |  |

### preHookTemplate/postHookTemplate
This is a very simple example of a pre- or postHookTemplate:
```
steps:
  - script: |
      echo "Hello world"
    displayName: "hello world"
```

### SonarCloud configuration example

1. Create pre and post hook templates
   - create directory ```templates``` in your project
   - Pre hook template ```templates/prehooktemplate.yml```
   
    ```
    steps:
       - task: SonarCloudPrepare@1
         inputs:
             SonarCloud: '<SonarCloud service connection>'
             organization: '<SonarCloud organization>'
             scannerMode: 'Other'
             extraProperties: |
                 # Additional properties that will be passed to the scanner,
                 # Put one key=value per line, example:
                 # sonar.exclusions=**/*.bin
                 sonar.projectKey=<SonarCloud project key>
                 sonar.projectName=<SonarCloud project name>   
    ```
    - Post hook template ```templates/posthooktemplate.yml```

    ```
    steps:
      - task: SonarCloudPublish@1
        inputs:
          pollingTimeoutSec: '300'
    ```

2. Adapt template configuration ```azure-pipelines.yml```

    ```
        - template: ci-job-template.yml@icm-partner-devops
          parameters:
            # These parameters must not be changed. They are used to pass variables to the ci-job templaten, which
            # are defined by library icm11-build-configuration.
            agentPool:                          $(BUILD_AGENT_POOL)
            dockerRepoICMServiceConnection:     $(INTERSHOP_REPO_SERVICE_CONNECTION)
            dockerRepoICM:                      $(INTERSHOP_REPO_PATH)
            acrServiceConnection:               $(REPO_SERVICE_CONNECTION)
            acr:                                $(REPO_PATH)
            artifactsFeed:                      $(ARTIFACT_FEED)
            preHookTemplate:                    templates/prehooktemplate.yml@self
            postHookTemplate:                   templates/posthooktemplate.yml@self
            sonarQubeEnabled:                   true
            sqGradlePluginVersionChoice:        build
    ```

The version of the Sonar Gradle plugin is used from build.gradle(.kts) script.

## Important information:

Always refer to the `stable/v1` branch or a tag as the main/master branch is under constant development and breaking changes cannot be excluded. The `stable/v1` represents a branch that is backward compatible and does not contain any breaking changes.

Commit message:

feat: add support for ther java versions (#96029) (#12)
Co-authored-by: Moritz Karsch <MoritzKarsch@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:


# icm-partner-devops

## Overview

Repository *icm-partner-devops* provides an *Azure DevOps Pipeline* template, which can be used by ICM projects, that are managed inside *Intershops Commerce Platform*. The template should be used as is. Any custom additions should be made outside of the template.

## How to use the pipeline template

To use the pipeline template, add a file named `azure-pipelines.yml` to the root directory of your project with the following content:

```
# azure-pipelines.yml

resources:
  repositories:
    - repository: icm-partner-devops
      type: github
      endpoint: <GitHub Connection>
      name: intershop/icm-partner-devops
      ref: refs/heads/stable/v1

jobs:
  - template: ci-job-template.yml@icm-partner-devops
    parameters:
      <PARAMETER>

```
A more detailed example can be found in the `azure-pipelines.yml.tmpl` file.
After that, in Azure DevOps a new pipeline has to be created from this file.

## Parameters

| Parameter Name | Description | Default Value | Required |
|---|---|---|---|
| id | Identifies each job uniquely when ci-job-template.yml is used in a loop. Can only contain characters, numbers, and underscores. Also used to extend names of files published in extensions. |  |  |
| dependsOn | Enables an easy integration with custom jobs. The parameter will be passed as is to the 'dependsOn' property of the job. |  |  |
| condition | Enables an easy integration with custom jobs. The parameter will be passed as is to the 'condition' property of the job. |  |  |
| agentPool | Specifies the name of the agent pool. The pool name can't be hardcoded in the pipeline template. |  | Yes |
| dockerRepoICMServiceConnection | Name of the Service connection to the Docker repository |  | Yes |
| dockerRepoICM | Name of Docker repository, containing the ICM-customization product images. |  | Yes |
| artifactsFeed | Name of projects Maven repository. |  | Yes |
| acrServiceConnection | Name of the service connection to the ACR of the project. |  | Yes |
| acr | Repository in ACR including host name. |  | Yes |
| projectPath | Specifies the name of the repository. | '$(Build.Repository.Name)' | Yes |
| envPath | Name of the ci-configuration repository resource. When making adjustments, the 'directoriesConf' parameter must also be adjusted. | 'ci-configuration' | Yes |
| directoriesConf | Setting required system properties of the JVM. When making adjustments, the 'envPath' parameter must also be adjusted. | '-DlicenseDir=$(Pipeline.Workspace)/s/ci-configuration/license -DconfigDir=$(Pipeline.Workspace)/s/ci-configuration/environment' | Yes |
| repositoriesConf | Setting required project properties. | '-PrepoUser=PAT -PrepoPassword=$(System.AccessToken)' | Yes |
| gradleUserHome | Value of the GRADLE_USER_HOME variable. | '$(Pipeline.Workspace)/.gradle' | Yes |
| containerPrefix | Prefix of the GebTest containers. | '$(Build.Repository.Name)' | Yes |
| jobTimeoutInMinutes | Maximum job execution time. | 300 | Yes |
| jobContinueOnError | Specifies whether future jobs should run even if this job fails; defaults to 'false'. | false | Yes |
| runGebTest | Specifies whether all gebTest tasks should run; defaults to 'true'. | true | Yes |
| gebTestTasks | gradle gebTest tasks. | 'startSolrCloud startMailSrv startAS startWA startWAA rebuildSearchIndex gebTest' | Yes |
| gradleBuildTask | gradle build tasks. | 'startMSSQL dbPrepare test ishUnitTestReport -x=containerClean' | Yes |
| lockImages | Specify whether an image built based on a Git tag should be locked in the Azure container registry. | true |  |
| preHookTemplate | Inject additional steps into the current job. This can be done by defining additional templates, which are executed before the main steps of the current job. Just create according template files and pass their names to the following parameters. '@self' is important, otherwise the templates would be expected at the same location as ci-job-template.yml. <filename>@self | |  |
| postHookTemplate | Inject additional steps into the current job. This can be done by defining additional templates, which are executed after the main steps of the current job. Just create according template files and pass their names to the following parameters. '@self' is important, otherwise the templates would be expected at the same location as ci-job-template.yml. <filename>@self | |  |
| sonarQubeEnabled | Specifies whether SonarQube analysis should be enabled. | false |  |
| sqGradlePluginVersionChoice | Specifies the SonarQube Gradle plugin version to use. Declare the version in the Gradle configuration file, or specify a version with this string. Allowed values: specify (Specify version number), build (Use plugin applied in your build.gradle). | specify |
| sonarQubePluginVersion | Specifies the version of the SonarQube plugin to be used for code analysis. | 2.6.1 |  |
| checkStyleEnabled | Specifies whether CheckStyle analysis should be enabled. | false |  |
| pmdEnabled | Specifies whether PMD analysis should be enabled. | false |  |
| spotBugsEnabled | Specifies whether SpotBugs analysis should be enabled. | false |  |
| spotBugsPluginVersion | Specifies the version of the SpotBugs plugin to be used for code analysis. | 4.7.0 |  |
| javaVersion | Specifies the JDK version to make available on the path. Use a whole number version, such as 17 or 21. | 17 | Yes |

### preHookTemplate/postHookTemplate
This is a very simple example of a pre- or postHookTemplate:
```
steps:
  - script: |
      echo "Hello world"
    displayName: "hello world"
```

### SonarCloud configuration example

1. Create pre and post hook templates
   - create directory ```templates``` in your project
   - Pre hook template ```templates/prehooktemplate.yml```
   
    ```
    steps:
       - task: SonarCloudPrepare@1
         inputs:
             SonarCloud: '<SonarCloud service connection>'
             organization: '<SonarCloud organization>'
             scannerMode: 'Other'
             extraProperties: |
                 # Additional properties that will be passed to the scanner,
                 # Put one key=value per line, example:
                 # sonar.exclusions=**/*.bin
                 sonar.projectKey=<SonarCloud project key>
                 sonar.projectName=<SonarCloud project name>   
    ```
    - Post hook template ```templates/posthooktemplate.yml```

    ```
    steps:
      - task: SonarCloudPublish@1
        inputs:
          pollingTimeoutSec: '300'
    ```

2. Adapt template configuration ```azure-pipelines.yml```

    ```
        - template: ci-job-template.yml@icm-partner-devops
          parameters:
            # These parameters must not be changed. They are used to pass variables to the ci-job templaten, which
            # are defined by library icm11-build-configuration.
            agentPool:                          $(BUILD_AGENT_POOL)
            dockerRepoICMServiceConnection:     $(INTERSHOP_REPO_SERVICE_CONNECTION)
            dockerRepoICM:                      $(INTERSHOP_REPO_PATH)
            acrServiceConnection:               $(REPO_SERVICE_CONNECTION)
            acr:                                $(REPO_PATH)
            artifactsFeed:                      $(ARTIFACT_FEED)
            preHookTemplate:                    templates/prehooktemplate.yml@self
            postHookTemplate:                   templates/posthooktemplate.yml@self
            sonarQubeEnabled:                   true
            sqGradlePluginVersionChoice:        build
    ```

The version of the Sonar Gradle plugin is used from build.gradle(.kts) script.

## Important information:

Always refer to the `stable/v1` branch or a tag as the main/master branch is under constant development and breaking changes cannot be excluded. The `stable/v1` represents a branch that is backward compatible and does not contain any breaking changes.
